wiki/Setting up a cluster.md, before:

By [TitanFighter](https://github.com/TitanFighter)


## Instructions

### Installation of a "hello-world" project

For testing we are going to use this "hello-world" app - https://gist.githubusercontent.com/vitobotta/6e73f724c5b94355ec21b9eee6f626f1/raw/3036d4c4283a08ab82b99fffea8df3dded1d1f78/deployment.yaml

1. Install `kubectl` on your computer: https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/#kubectl
2. Install `Helm` on your computer: https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/
3. Install `hetzner-k3s` on your computer: https://github.com/vitobotta/hetzner-k3s#getting-started
4. Create file `hetzner-k3s_cluster_config.yaml` with the config below (this is a config for High Available (HA) cluster with 3 master nodes + 3 worker nodes. You can use 1+1 for testing):

```yaml
hetzner_token: nRTJFfhIGNT..........
cluster_name: hello-world  # hetzner-k3s gives the next names to hosts: hello-world-cx21-master1 / hello-world-cpx21-pool-cpx31-worker1
kubeconfig_path: "./kubeconfig"  # or /cluster/kubeconfig if you are going to use Docker
k3s_version: v1.23.3+k3s1
public_ssh_key_path: "~/.ssh/id_rsa.pub"
private_ssh_key_path: "~/.ssh/id_rsa"
use_ssh_agent: true
ssh_allowed_networks:
  - 0.0.0.0/0
api_allowed_networks:
  - 0.0.0.0/0
schedule_workloads_on_masters: false
masters_pool:
  instance_type: cx21
  instance_count: 3
  location: nbg1
worker_node_pools:
- name: small
  instance_type: cpx21
  instance_count: 4
  location: hel1
- name: big
  instance_type: cpx31
  instance_count: 2
  location: fsn1
  autoscaling:
    enabled: true
    min_instances: 0
    max_instances: 3
```

5. Create cluster: `hetzner-k3s create --config hetzner-k3s_cluster_config.yaml`
6. `hetzner-k3s` automatically creates a `kubeconfig`file for the cluster in the directory of your computer where you run the tool,
so you can either copy the `kubeconfig` file to `~/.kube/config` if it's the only cluster, or run `export KUBECONFIG=./kubeconfig`
in the same directory to access the cluster. Then you can interact with your cluster via `kubectl` installed in the 1st step.

TIP: If you don't want to run `kubectl apply ...` every time, you can store all configs in some folders and then run `kubectl apply -f /path/to/configs/ -R`.

7. Create file: `touch ingress-nginx-annotations.yaml`
8. Add annotations to the file: `nano ingress-nginx-annotations.yaml`

```yaml
# INSTALLATION
# 1. Install Helm: https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/
# 2. Add ingress-nginx help repo: helm repo add ingress-nginx https://kubernetes.github.io/ingress-nginx
# 3. Update information of available charts locally from chart repositories: helm repo update
# 4. Install ingress-nginx:
# helm upgrade --install \
# ingress-nginx ingress-nginx/ingress-nginx \
# -f ./ingress-nginx-annotations.yaml \
# --namespace ingress-nginx \
# --create-namespace

# LIST of all ANNOTATIONS: https://github.com/hetznercloud/hcloud-cloud-controller-manager/blob/master/internal/annotation/load_balancer.go

controller:
  kind: DaemonSet
  service:
    annotations:
      # Germany:
      # - nbg1 (Nuremberg)
      # - fsn1 (Falkensteing)
      # Finland:
      # - hel1 (Helsinki)
      # USA:
      # - ash (Ashburn, Virginia)
      # Without this the load balancer won't be provisioned and will stay in "pending" state.
      # The state you can check via "kubectl get svc -n ingress-nginx"
      load-balancer.hetzner.cloud/location: nbg1

      # Name of load balancer. This name you will see in your Hetzner's cloud console (site) at the "Your project -> Load Balancers" page
      # NOTE: This is NOT the load balancer that the tool creates automatically for clusters with multiple masters (HA configuration). You need
      # to specify a different name here so it will create a separate load balancer for ingress Nginx.
      load-balancer.hetzner.cloud/name: WORKERS_LOAD_BALANCER_NAME

      # Ensures that the communication between the load balancer and the cluster nodes happens through the private network
      load-balancer.hetzner.cloud/use-private-ip: "true"

      # [ START: If you care about seeing the actual IP of the client then use these two annotations ]
      # - "uses-proxyprotocol" enables the proxy protocol on the load balancers so that ingress controller and
      # applications can "see" the real IP address of the client.
      # - "hostname" is needed just if you use cert-manager (LetsEncrypt SSL certificates). You need to use it in order
      # to fix fails http01 challenges of "cert-manager" (https://cert-manager.io/docs/).
      # Here (https://github.com/compumike/hairpin-proxy) you can find a description of this problem.
      # To be short: the easiest fix provided by some providers (including Hetzner) is to configure the load balancer so
      # that it uses a hostname instead of an IP.
      load-balancer.hetzner.cloud/uses-proxyprotocol: 'true'

      # 1. "yourDomain.com" must be configured in the DNS correctly to point to the Nginx load balancer,
      # otherwise the provision of certificates won't work;
      # 2. if you use a few domains, specify any one.
      load-balancer.hetzner.cloud/hostname: yourDomain.com
      # [ END: If you care about seeing the actual IP of the client then use these two annotations ]

      load-balancer.hetzner.cloud/http-redirect-https: 'false'
```

9. Add ingress-nginx Helm repo: `helm repo add ingress-nginx https://kubernetes.github.io/ingress-nginx`
10. Update information of available charts locally from chart repositories: `helm repo update`
11. Install ingress-nginx:

```bash
helm upgrade --install \
ingress-nginx ingress-nginx/ingress-nginx \
-f ~/.kube/ingress-nginx-annotations.yaml \
--namespace ingress-nginx \
--create-namespace
```

TIP: Just in case you need to delete it: `helm uninstall ingress-nginx -n ingress-nginx`.
Be careful, this will delete current Hetzner's load balancer as a result when you install a new ingress controller,
new Hetzner's load balancer possibly will be created with a new public IP address.

12. In a few minutes check that the "EXTERNAL-IP" column has IP instead of "pending": `kubectl get svc -n ingress-nginx`

13. `load-balancer.hetzner.cloud/uses-proxyprotocol: "true"` annotation requires `use-proxy-protocol: "true"` for ingress-nginx, so let's create file: `touch ingress-nginx-configmap.yaml`
14. Add content to just created file: `nano ingress-nginx-configmap.yaml`

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
  # Do not change name - this is the name required by Nginx Ingress Controller
  name: ingress-nginx-controller
  namespace: ingress-nginx
data:
  use-proxy-protocol: "true"
```

15. Apply config map: `kubectl apply -f ./ingress-nginx-configmap.yaml`
16. Open your Hetzner's cloud console (site), "Your project -> Load Balancers" and find PUBLIC IP in front of the name you used with "load-balancer.hetzner.cloud/name: WORKERS_LOAD_BALANCER_NAME" annotation. Copy/Remember this IP.
17. Download hello-world app: `curl https://gist.githubusercontent.com/vitobotta/6e73f724c5b94355ec21b9eee6f626f1/raw/3036d4c4283a08ab82b99fffea8df3dded1d1f78/deployment.yaml --output hello-world.yaml`
18. Edit the file (add annotation + add Hetzner's Load Balancer IP Address) and set the hostname:

```yaml
---
apiVersion: networking.k8s.io/v1
kind: Ingress
metadata:
  name: hello-world
  annotations:                             # <<<--- Add annotation
    kubernetes.io/ingress.class: nginx     # <<<--- Add annotation
spec:
  rules:
  - host: hello-world.IP_FROM_STEP_13.nip.io # <<<--- ADD IP FROM THE STEP 13.
  ....
```

19. Install hello-world app: `kubectl apply -f hello-world.yaml`
20. Check http://hello-world.IP_FROM_STEP_13.nip.io
You should see the RANCHER Hello world! page.
"host.IP_FROM_STEP_13.nip.io" (the key part is ".nip.io") is just a quick way to test things without configuring DNS (a query to a hostname ending in nip.io simply returns the IP address it finds in the hostname itself).
21. In order to connect yourDomain.com, you need to:
  - assign IP address from the step 13 to your domain in DNS panel of your domain registrar
  - change "- host: hello-world.IP_FROM_STEP_13.nip.io" to "- host: yourDomain.com";
  - `kubectl apply -f hello-world.yaml`
  - wait 1-30 mins until DNS records are updated.

#### If you need LetsEncrypt

22. Add LetsEncrypt Helm repo: `helm repo add jetstack https://charts.jetstack.io`
23. Update information of available charts locally from chart repositories: `helm repo update`
24. Install LetsEncrypt certificates issuer:

```bash
helm upgrade --install \
--namespace cert-manager \
--create-namespace \
--set installCRDs=true \
cert-manager jetstack/cert-manager
```

25. Create file `lets-encrypt.yaml` with content:

```yaml
apiVersion: cert-manager.io/v1
kind: ClusterIssuer
metadata:
  name: letsencrypt-prod
  namespace: cert-manager
spec:
  acme:
    email: YOUR@EMAIL.com
    server: https://acme-v02.api.letsencrypt.org/directory
    privateKeySecretRef:
      name: letsencrypt-prod-account-key
    solvers:
    - http01:
        ingress:
          class: nginx
```

26. Apply file: `kubectl apply -f ./lets-encrypt.yaml`
27. Change `nano hello-world.yaml`:

```yaml
apiVersion: networking.k8s.io/v1
kind: Ingress
metadata:
  name: hello-world
  annotations:
    kubernetes.io/ingress.class: nginx
    cert-manager.io/cluster-issuer: "letsencrypt-prod"    # <<<--- Add annotation
    kubernetes.io/tls-acme: "true"                        # <<<--- Add annotation
spec:
  rules:
  - host: yourDomain.com  # <<<---- Your real domain
  tls: # <<<---- Add this block
  - hosts:
    - yourDomain.com
    secretName: yourDomain.com-tls # <<<--- Add reference to secret

  ....
```

28. Apply changes: `kubectl apply -f ./hello-world.yaml`

Instructions are based on the README + [this answer](https://github.com/vitobotta/hetzner-k3s/issues/13#issuecomment-901857297).

## FAQs

#### 1. What Load Balancers will be installed?
`hetzner-k3s` installs/configures load balancer(s) for you via [Hetzner's cloud controller manager](https://github.com/hetznercloud/hcloud-cloud-controller-manager).
They cost money. The cheapest right now is 5 EUR/month.

If you are going to have a High Available (HA) cluster, you need to have 3/5/7/... (odd number) master nodes.
In this case you will get 2 Hetzner's load balancers:
- one for Kubernetes API (this one will be installed automatically by hetzner-k3s);
- one for the ingress controller (for this one you need to add annotation "load-balancer.hetzner.cloud/location: XYZ" to ingress-nginx).

In case if you need to have just 1 master node, there will be just 1 Hetzner's load balancer - for the ingress controller (you need to add annotation "load-balancer.hetzner.cloud/location: XYZ" to ingress-nginx).

#### 2. Can we use "rules" block of ingress-nginx (the one which Kubernetes uses as a LoadBalancer) instead of creating our own "per-app" ingress as well as cert-manager like shown below

```yaml
apiVersion: networking.k8s.io/v1
kind: Ingress
metadata:
 name: ingress-nginx
 annotations:
   nginx.ingress.kubernetes.io/rewrite-target: /
   nginx.ingress.kubernetes.io/force-ssl-redirect: "true"
   cert-manager.io/cluster-issuer: letsencrypt-prod
   kubernetes.io/ingress.class: nginx
spec:
  ingressClassName: nginx
  tls:
  - hosts:
    - yourDomain.com
    secretName: letsencrypt-certs
  rules:
  - host: yourDomain.com
    http:
      paths:
      - path: /
        pathType: Prefix
        backend:
          service:
            name: myService
            port:
              number: 80
```

A separate ingresse resource for each app is recommended though. I also usually keep apps in separate namespaces, so in that case I need to have separate ingress resources.

#### 3. Is it possible to use for example MetalLB instead of Hetzner's LB?
There is a way to use MetalLB with floating IPs in Hetzner Cloud but I don't recommend it. The setup with standard load balancers is much simpler and load balancers are not that much more expensive than floating IPs so IMO there's no point using MetalLB.

#### 4. How to create and push docker images to a repository and how to allow kubernetes to work with this image (gitlab example)?
On a computer which creates an image:
- `docker login registry.gitlab.com`
- `docker build -t registry.gitlab.com/COMPANY_NAME/REPO_NAME:IMAGE_NAME -f /some/path/to/Dockerfile .`
- `docker push registry.gitlab.com/COMPANY_NAME/REPO_NAME:IMAGE_NAME`

On a computer which runs kubernetes:
- generate secret to access images: `kubectl create secret docker-registry gitlabcreds --docker-server=https://registry.gitlab.com --docker-username=MYUSER --docker-password=MYPWD --docker-email=MYEMAIL -n NAMESPACE_OF_YOUR_APP -o yaml > docker-secret.yaml`
- apply secret: `kubectl apply -f docker-secret.yaml -n NAMESPACE_OF_YOUR_APP`

#### 5. How to check how much resources nodes/pods use?
- Install metrics-server https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/metrics-server
- Then use either `kubectl top nodes` or `kubectl top pods -A`

#### 6. What is Ingress?
There are 2 types of "ingress" -> `Ingress Controller` and `Ingress Resources`.
To simplify everything, in the case of Nginx...
- Ingress Controller is Nginx itself (this is `kind: Ingress`), Ingress Resources are services (ie. `kind: Service`).
- Ingress Controller has different annotations (rules). You can use them inside `kind: Ingress` as a result such rules become "global" and inside `kind: Service` as a result such rules become "local" (service-specific).
- Ingress Controller consists of a Pod and a Service. The Pod runs the Controller, which constantly polls the /ingresses endpoint on the API server of your cluster for updates to available Ingress Resources.

## Useful commands

```bash
kubectl get service [serviceName] -A or -n [nameSpace]
kubectl get ingress [ingressName] -A or -n [nameSpace]
kubectl get pod [podName] -A or -n [nameSpace]
kubectl get all -A
kubectl get events -A
helm ls -A
helm uninstall [name] -n [nameSpace]
kubectl -n ingress-nginx get svc
kubectl describe ingress -A
kubectl describe svc -n ingress-nginx
kubectl delete configmap nginx-config -n ingress-nginx
kubectl rollout restart deployment -n NAMESPACE_OF_YOUR_APP
kubectl get all -A` does not include "ingress", as a result you need to use `kubectl get ing -A
```

##  Useful links
Cheat Sheet - https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/kubectl/cheatsheet/
A visual guide on troubleshooting Kubernetes deployments - https://learnk8s.io/troubleshooting-deployments

Commit message:

Update Setting up a cluster.md
- Step was wrong
- Hint about proxy protocol

wiki/Setting up a cluster.md, after:

By [TitanFighter](https://github.com/TitanFighter)


## Instructions

### Installation of a "hello-world" project

For testing we are going to use this "hello-world" app - https://gist.githubusercontent.com/vitobotta/6e73f724c5b94355ec21b9eee6f626f1/raw/3036d4c4283a08ab82b99fffea8df3dded1d1f78/deployment.yaml

1. Install `kubectl` on your computer: https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/#kubectl
2. Install `Helm` on your computer: https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/
3. Install `hetzner-k3s` on your computer: https://github.com/vitobotta/hetzner-k3s#getting-started
4. Create file `hetzner-k3s_cluster_config.yaml` with the config below (this is a config for High Available (HA) cluster with 3 master nodes + 3 worker nodes. You can use 1+1 for testing):

```yaml
hetzner_token: nRTJFfhIGNT..........
cluster_name: hello-world  # hetzner-k3s gives the next names to hosts: hello-world-cx21-master1 / hello-world-cpx21-pool-cpx31-worker1
kubeconfig_path: "./kubeconfig"  # or /cluster/kubeconfig if you are going to use Docker
k3s_version: v1.23.3+k3s1
public_ssh_key_path: "~/.ssh/id_rsa.pub"
private_ssh_key_path: "~/.ssh/id_rsa"
use_ssh_agent: true
ssh_allowed_networks:
  - 0.0.0.0/0
api_allowed_networks:
  - 0.0.0.0/0
schedule_workloads_on_masters: false
masters_pool:
  instance_type: cx21
  instance_count: 3
  location: nbg1
worker_node_pools:
- name: small
  instance_type: cpx21
  instance_count: 4
  location: hel1
- name: big
  instance_type: cpx31
  instance_count: 2
  location: fsn1
  autoscaling:
    enabled: true
    min_instances: 0
    max_instances: 3
```

5. Create cluster: `hetzner-k3s create --config hetzner-k3s_cluster_config.yaml`
6. `hetzner-k3s` automatically creates a `kubeconfig`file for the cluster in the directory of your computer where you run the tool,
so you can either copy the `kubeconfig` file to `~/.kube/config` if it's the only cluster, or run `export KUBECONFIG=./kubeconfig`
in the same directory to access the cluster. Then you can interact with your cluster via `kubectl` installed in the 1st step.

TIP: If you don't want to run `kubectl apply ...` every time, you can store all configs in some folders and then run `kubectl apply -f /path/to/configs/ -R`.

7. Create file: `touch ingress-nginx-annotations.yaml`
8. Add annotations to the file: `nano ingress-nginx-annotations.yaml`

```yaml
# INSTALLATION
# 1. Install Helm: https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/
# 2. Add ingress-nginx help repo: helm repo add ingress-nginx https://kubernetes.github.io/ingress-nginx
# 3. Update information of available charts locally from chart repositories: helm repo update
# 4. Install ingress-nginx:
# helm upgrade --install \
# ingress-nginx ingress-nginx/ingress-nginx \
# -f ./ingress-nginx-annotations.yaml \
# --namespace ingress-nginx \
# --create-namespace

# LIST of all ANNOTATIONS: https://github.com/hetznercloud/hcloud-cloud-controller-manager/blob/master/internal/annotation/load_balancer.go

controller:
  kind: DaemonSet
  service:
    annotations:
      # Germany:
      # - nbg1 (Nuremberg)
      # - fsn1 (Falkensteing)
      # Finland:
      # - hel1 (Helsinki)
      # USA:
      # - ash (Ashburn, Virginia)
      # Without this the load balancer won't be provisioned and will stay in "pending" state.
      # The state you can check via "kubectl get svc -n ingress-nginx"
      load-balancer.hetzner.cloud/location: nbg1

      # Name of load balancer. This name you will see in your Hetzner's cloud console (site) at the "Your project -> Load Balancers" page
      # NOTE: This is NOT the load balancer that the tool creates automatically for clusters with multiple masters (HA configuration). You need
      # to specify a different name here so it will create a separate load balancer for ingress Nginx.
      load-balancer.hetzner.cloud/name: WORKERS_LOAD_BALANCER_NAME

      # Ensures that the communication between the load balancer and the cluster nodes happens through the private network
      load-balancer.hetzner.cloud/use-private-ip: "true"

      # [ START: If you care about seeing the actual IP of the client then use these two annotations ]
      # - "uses-proxyprotocol" enables the proxy protocol on the load balancers so that ingress controller and
      # applications can "see" the real IP address of the client.
      # - "hostname" is needed just if you use cert-manager (LetsEncrypt SSL certificates). You need to use it in order
      # to fix fails http01 challenges of "cert-manager" (https://cert-manager.io/docs/).
      # Here (https://github.com/compumike/hairpin-proxy) you can find a description of this problem.
      # To be short: the easiest fix provided by some providers (including Hetzner) is to configure the load balancer so
      # that it uses a hostname instead of an IP.
      load-balancer.hetzner.cloud/uses-proxyprotocol: 'true'

      # 1. "yourDomain.com" must be configured in the DNS correctly to point to the Nginx load balancer,
      # otherwise the provision of certificates won't work;
      # 2. if you use a few domains, specify any one.
      load-balancer.hetzner.cloud/hostname: yourDomain.com
      # [ END: If you care about seeing the actual IP of the client then use these two annotations ]

      load-balancer.hetzner.cloud/http-redirect-https: 'false'
```

9. Add ingress-nginx Helm repo: `helm repo add ingress-nginx https://kubernetes.github.io/ingress-nginx`
10. Update information of available charts locally from chart repositories: `helm repo update`
11. Install ingress-nginx:

```bash
helm upgrade --install \
ingress-nginx ingress-nginx/ingress-nginx \
-f ~/.kube/ingress-nginx-annotations.yaml \
--namespace ingress-nginx \
--create-namespace
```

TIP: Just in case you need to delete it: `helm uninstall ingress-nginx -n ingress-nginx`.
Be careful, this will delete current Hetzner's load balancer as a result when you install a new ingress controller,
new Hetzner's load balancer possibly will be created with a new public IP address.

12. In a few minutes check that the "EXTERNAL-IP" column has IP instead of "pending": `kubectl get svc -n ingress-nginx`

13. `load-balancer.hetzner.cloud/uses-proxyprotocol: "true"` annotation requires `use-proxy-protocol: "true"` for ingress-nginx, so let's create file: `touch ingress-nginx-configmap.yaml`
14. Add content to just created file: `nano ingress-nginx-configmap.yaml`

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
  # Do not change name - this is the name required by Nginx Ingress Controller
  name: ingress-nginx-controller
  namespace: ingress-nginx
data:
  use-proxy-protocol: "true"
```

15. Apply config map: `kubectl apply -f ./ingress-nginx-configmap.yaml`
16. Open your Hetzner's cloud console (site), "Your project -> Load Balancers" and find PUBLIC IP in front of the name you used with "load-balancer.hetzner.cloud/name: WORKERS_LOAD_BALANCER_NAME" annotation. Copy/Remember this IP.
17. Download hello-world app: `curl https://gist.githubusercontent.com/vitobotta/6e73f724c5b94355ec21b9eee6f626f1/raw/3036d4c4283a08ab82b99fffea8df3dded1d1f78/deployment.yaml --output hello-world.yaml`
18. Edit the file (add annotation + add Hetzner's Load Balancer IP Address) and set the hostname:

```yaml
---
apiVersion: networking.k8s.io/v1
kind: Ingress
metadata:
  name: hello-world
  annotations:                             # <<<--- Add annotation
    kubernetes.io/ingress.class: nginx     # <<<--- Add annotation
spec:
  rules:
  - host: hello-world.IP_FROM_STEP_13.nip.io # <<<--- ADD IP FROM THE STEP 16.
  ....
```

19. Install hello-world app: `kubectl apply -f hello-world.yaml`
20. Check http://hello-world.IP_FROM_STEP_13.nip.io
You should see the RANCHER Hello world! page and also your own current public IP address in the `X-Forwarded-For` header if you did enable "proxy-protocol" for loadbalancer and nginx, as shown above.
"host.IP_FROM_STEP_13.nip.io" (the key part is ".nip.io") is just a quick way to test things without configuring DNS (a query to a hostname ending in nip.io simply returns the IP address it finds in the hostname itself).
21. In order to connect yourDomain.com, you need to:
  - assign IP address from the step 13 to your domain in DNS panel of your domain registrar
  - change "- host: hello-world.IP_FROM_STEP_13.nip.io" to "- host: yourDomain.com";
  - `kubectl apply -f hello-world.yaml`
  - wait 1-30 mins until DNS records are updated.

#### If you need LetsEncrypt

22. Add LetsEncrypt Helm repo: `helm repo add jetstack https://charts.jetstack.io`
23. Update information of available charts locally from chart repositories: `helm repo update`
24. Install LetsEncrypt certificates issuer:

```bash
helm upgrade --install \
--namespace cert-manager \
--create-namespace \
--set installCRDs=true \
cert-manager jetstack/cert-manager
```

25. Create file `lets-encrypt.yaml` with content:

```yaml
apiVersion: cert-manager.io/v1
kind: ClusterIssuer
metadata:
  name: letsencrypt-prod
  namespace: cert-manager
spec:
  acme:
    email: YOUR@EMAIL.com
    server: https://acme-v02.api.letsencrypt.org/directory
    privateKeySecretRef:
      name: letsencrypt-prod-account-key
    solvers:
    - http01:
        ingress:
          class: nginx
```

26. Apply file: `kubectl apply -f ./lets-encrypt.yaml`
27. Change `nano hello-world.yaml`:

```yaml
apiVersion: networking.k8s.io/v1
kind: Ingress
metadata:
  name: hello-world
  annotations:
    kubernetes.io/ingress.class: nginx
    cert-manager.io/cluster-issuer: "letsencrypt-prod"    # <<<--- Add annotation
    kubernetes.io/tls-acme: "true"                        # <<<--- Add annotation
spec:
  rules:
  - host: yourDomain.com  # <<<---- Your real domain
  tls: # <<<---- Add this block
  - hosts:
    - yourDomain.com
    secretName: yourDomain.com-tls # <<<--- Add reference to secret

  ....
```

28. Apply changes: `kubectl apply -f ./hello-world.yaml`

Instructions are based on the README + [this answer](https://github.com/vitobotta/hetzner-k3s/issues/13#issuecomment-901857297).

## FAQs

#### 1. What Load Balancers will be installed?
`hetzner-k3s` installs/configures load balancer(s) for you via [Hetzner's cloud controller manager](https://github.com/hetznercloud/hcloud-cloud-controller-manager).
They cost money. The cheapest right now is 5 EUR/month.

If you are going to have a High Available (HA) cluster, you need to have 3/5/7/... (odd number) master nodes.
In this case you will get 2 Hetzner's load balancers:
- one for Kubernetes API (this one will be installed automatically by hetzner-k3s);
- one for the ingress controller (for this one you need to add annotation "load-balancer.hetzner.cloud/location: XYZ" to ingress-nginx).

In case if you need to have just 1 master node, there will be just 1 Hetzner's load balancer - for the ingress controller (you need to add annotation "load-balancer.hetzner.cloud/location: XYZ" to ingress-nginx).

#### 2. Can we use "rules" block of ingress-nginx (the one which Kubernetes uses as a LoadBalancer) instead of creating our own "per-app" ingress as well as cert-manager like shown below

```yaml
apiVersion: networking.k8s.io/v1
kind: Ingress
metadata:
 name: ingress-nginx
 annotations:
   nginx.ingress.kubernetes.io/rewrite-target: /
   nginx.ingress.kubernetes.io/force-ssl-redirect: "true"
   cert-manager.io/cluster-issuer: letsencrypt-prod
   kubernetes.io/ingress.class: nginx
spec:
  ingressClassName: nginx
  tls:
  - hosts:
    - yourDomain.com
    secretName: letsencrypt-certs
  rules:
  - host: yourDomain.com
    http:
      paths:
      - path: /
        pathType: Prefix
        backend:
          service:
            name: myService
            port:
              number: 80
```

A separate ingresse resource for each app is recommended though. I also usually keep apps in separate namespaces, so in that case I need to have separate ingress resources.

#### 3. Is it possible to use for example MetalLB instead of Hetzner's LB?
There is a way to use MetalLB with floating IPs in Hetzner Cloud but I don't recommend it. The setup with standard load balancers is much simpler and load balancers are not that much more expensive than floating IPs so IMO there's no point using MetalLB.

#### 4. How to create and push docker images to a repository and how to allow kubernetes to work with this image (gitlab example)?
On a computer which creates an image:
- `docker login registry.gitlab.com`
- `docker build -t registry.gitlab.com/COMPANY_NAME/REPO_NAME:IMAGE_NAME -f /some/path/to/Dockerfile .`
- `docker push registry.gitlab.com/COMPANY_NAME/REPO_NAME:IMAGE_NAME`

On a computer which runs kubernetes:
- generate secret to access images: `kubectl create secret docker-registry gitlabcreds --docker-server=https://registry.gitlab.com --docker-username=MYUSER --docker-password=MYPWD --docker-email=MYEMAIL -n NAMESPACE_OF_YOUR_APP -o yaml > docker-secret.yaml`
- apply secret: `kubectl apply -f docker-secret.yaml -n NAMESPACE_OF_YOUR_APP`

#### 5. How to check how much resources nodes/pods use?
- Install metrics-server https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/metrics-server
- Then use either `kubectl top nodes` or `kubectl top pods -A`

#### 6. What is Ingress?
There are 2 types of "ingress" -> `Ingress Controller` and `Ingress Resources`.
To simplify everything, in the case of Nginx...
- Ingress Controller is Nginx itself (this is `kind: Ingress`), Ingress Resources are services (ie. `kind: Service`).
- Ingress Controller has different annotations (rules). You can use them inside `kind: Ingress` as a result such rules become "global" and inside `kind: Service` as a result such rules become "local" (service-specific).
- Ingress Controller consists of a Pod and a Service. The Pod runs the Controller, which constantly polls the /ingresses endpoint on the API server of your cluster for updates to available Ingress Resources.

## Useful commands

```bash
kubectl get service [serviceName] -A or -n [nameSpace]
kubectl get ingress [ingressName] -A or -n [nameSpace]
kubectl get pod [podName] -A or -n [nameSpace]
kubectl get all -A
kubectl get events -A
helm ls -A
helm uninstall [name] -n [nameSpace]
kubectl -n ingress-nginx get svc
kubectl describe ingress -A
kubectl describe svc -n ingress-nginx
kubectl delete configmap nginx-config -n ingress-nginx
kubectl rollout restart deployment -n NAMESPACE_OF_YOUR_APP
kubectl get all -A` does not include "ingress", as a result you need to use `kubectl get ing -A
```

##  Useful links
Cheat Sheet - https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/kubectl/cheatsheet/
A visual guide on troubleshooting Kubernetes deployments - https://learnk8s.io/troubleshooting-deployments
